1. Blue Screen of Death

Many users don’t bother actually reading what’s on the infamous BSOD, so you’ll probably have to ask them to read it to you before telling them to take a deep breath and reboot (in most cases). A BSOD section on your IT help desk self-service portal can reassure users and save you time spent telling people to restart their computers.

2. I can’t log in.
This is easily one of the most common tech support issues and the causes range from the silly (the user left “caps lock” on) to potentially major (the user’s account has been suspended because he was playing Farmville all day.)

3. I accidentally deleted some files. Can I get them back?
As soon as the danger of the user hyperventilating is over, explain his or her options. Sometimes people think that once a file goes into the Recycle Bin it’s gone forever. That’s an easy fix. If they’ve emptied the Recycle Bin or “Shift-Deleted” files, they need to know to stop using that drive until the files are retrieved — information that can go on your help desk self-service portal.

4. My computer is too slow.
A lot of people don’t see a problem with having sixteen windows open at once, and you may have to explain how too many windows will slow things down. They may have picked up malware, however, so you need to encourage them to explain exactly what happened, even if they were doing something they shouldn’t.

5. My computer shut down for no good reason.
Have you ever seen the puck-like cakes of dust that can build up on computer cooling fans? A lot of people don’t understand that their computers can overheat and that they may need to be cleared of dust periodically.

6. The printer won’t work.
Have you ever had this exchange before?

You: “Is the printer turned on?”

User: “I never had to turn it on before.”

It doesn’t occur to a lot of users to check the obvious before submitting a help desk ticket.

7. My computer is making a grinding noise.
Some hard drives are designed to make sounds when a spindle gets stuck or heads go bad. When the user admits to not having backed anything up recently, resist the urge to go to their cubicle and throttle them with a USB cable. Seriously, this is the kind of information your self-service portal should contain, letting users know that they need to stop using the machine until the problem can be properly diagnosed and fixed.

8. The internet is slow.
Spyware and viruses are two main causes of slow internet service. You’ll need your end users to be honest about sites they have visited. Assure them that you only want to know exactly what happened so you can fix it. You can always laugh at them behind their backs during your lunch break.

9. The wireless network keeps kicking me off.
While overloaded routers do happen, you’ll need your end user to check that the wireless router is securely connected. Walk end users through the process of connecting to the router, connecting to the modem, and connecting to the provider’s website.

10. My computer won’t recognize my USB device.
The obvious first step is to try the device in another USB port. Users may also check to see if other USB devices are recognized, or if their USB device works on someone else’s computer before resorting to more in-depth troubleshooting methods.



Common Tech Support Problems
(1) It’s not letting me log in.
You’ve just sat down at your desk. You’re focused. You’re ready to get work done. You can’t log in… There are a couple of different reasons why your computer might be denying you access. You may have left “caps lock” on, your account may have been suspended or maybe you have the wrong password. The first and third options are the most common and a little less serious than having your account suspended. So just take a deep breath, check that caps are off and try some passwords that you may have used.

(2) My computers extremely slow.
Again, there are a few things that could be slowing your computer down so we’ll break a few of the most notable ones down for you. Our number one culprit is having a lot of windows and tabs open. The more you have open, the more your computer has to think about and the slower your computer will get. Imagine having someone rapid fire commands to you that you then have to repeat in exact order. It’s hard so don’t put your poor little computer under too much stress. Another option is that you could have a malware problem. If that’s the case you’re going to call an IT professional immediately. If you’re concerned that your computer may have a virus, check out our previous blog on viruses and malware.

(3) The Internet is working at a snails pace.
If your Internet’s acting lethargic then there are two probable causes; one, you’ve got spyware and two, you’ve contracted a virus. Going to disreputable sites (especially the ones you know could harm your computer) will most likely do just that. But, sometimes it’s a little more difficult to discern whether or not a site will upload a virus to your computer or not: such as when you click on a ‘funny’ video link. You wouldn’t go into the Amazon without the proper vaccinations and equipment so don’t go into equally dangerous sites without the proper anti-virus software.

(4) My wireless network is kicking me off!
I can’t tell you how often this used to happen to me at home. If you’re getting kicked off of your wireless router it means that the router is probably overloaded. To reconnect yourself you’re going to have to go through these steps.

(1) Check that your wireless router is securely connected

(2) Connect to the router

(3) Connect to the modem

(4) Connect to your website

(5) My USB device isn't showing up on my computer.
USB devices used to make bringing projects into school a living nightmare. I never knew if the thing was actually going to show up or if I’d get a zero for not being properly prepared. Here are a few steps you can take to get your USB drive up and running.

(1) Try a different USB port

(2) Check if the computer will recognize other USB devices

(3) Check your USB in another computer

(4)  if it’s still not functioning


-- Can't Access some Websites
	- Some websites are blocked


	"If you go out wearing that all the guys will fall in love with you."
"You really look like someone's dream girl."
"I have to close my eyes, you're so pretty."